Ashland Specialty Ingredients, GP
Are you the kind of person that is always thinking, sketching, seeking, and needs to understand how things work; then then figure out how they can work better? Are you a passionate, tenacious, solver who loves to work with others who share your drive? Are you positive, constructive, and ingenious?

Are you always solving?

Then we’d like to meet you and bet you’d like to meet us.

Ashland has an exciting opportunity for a computational chemist with experience using and developing AI tools to join our Applied Research Group, in Bridgewater, NJ. This is a very visible, significant role within the Company and global R&D. This position will support global R&D involving several new and exciting technologies.

The responsibilities of the position include, but are not limited to, the following:

Utilize advanced molecular simulation and data analytics methods to solve real world problems that provide benefits to society
Develop creative simulation and analysis workflows and protocols.
Grow AI capabilities and adoption
Collaborate with scientists and work effectively in focused project teams
Present study results to internal and external audiences
Prepare clear well written reports
Manage multiple projects, estimate timelines and resources, and coordinate efforts to meet timeline.
Work closely with other R&D sites and technical support teams to solve challenging technical problems for customers.
Comply with company procedural guidelines, procedures, and safety programs.
In order to be qualified for this role, you must possess the following:

A master’s or doctorate degree in a relevant area of chemistry, preferably physical chemistry
Experience using modern computational chemistry and molecular simulation methods, such as quantum mechanics, molecular mechanics and molecular dynamics
Experience using AI, machine learning, informatics and advanced data analysis tools
Deep understanding of physical chemistry
A record of successful scientific achievements
Demonstrated ability to work in a collaborative team environment
Ability to travel within United States and overseas as needed for project support
Must be authorized to work in the United States
The following skill sets are preferred :

Familiar with organic chemistry principles
Knowledge about polymer chemistry and characterization
Familiar with carbohydrate chemistry and characterization
Experience using scripting tools, or computer coding, preferably NVIDIA GPU – CUDA coding
Comfortable working with both LINUX and Windows computers
Experience using coarse-grained simulation methods
In more than 100 countries, the people of Ashland LLC. (NYSE: ASH) provide the specialty chemicals, technologies and insights to help customers create new and improved products for today and sustainable solutions for tomorrow. Our chemistry is at work every day in a wide variety of markets and applications, including architectural coatings, automotive, construction, energy, personal care and pharmaceutical. Visit www.ashland.com to see the innovations we offer.

At Ashland our vision is to be a leading, global specialty chemicals company whose inspired and engaged employees add value to all we touch. In fact our people, employees, customers and vendors define who we are. They are the driving force behind everything we do.

Not only do we value our customers but we value our employees, and we work to offer them a dynamic and challenging environment. We hold ourselves to high standards at Ashland, and we value integrity and honesty.

Ashland has a history of attracting the best people and keeping them. The reasons are simple: industry competitive salary and benefits, pay-for-performance incentive plans and a diverse work environment where employees feel challenged and valued. People come to Ashland and stay. As a growing Fortune 500 specialty chemicals company, we offer opportunities for development and advancement throughout our global organization. Our values define who we are and what we care about as a company. If you are looking for a relationship with a company instead of simply a job, this may be a great fit.

Ashland is proud to be an Equal Opportunity Employer Minorities/Women/Veterans/Disabled/Gender Identity/Sexual Orientation.

All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation, national origin, or protected veteran status and will not be discriminated against on the basis of disability. NOTE: We do not accept resumes from external staffing agencies or independent recruiters for any of our openings unless we have a signed recruiting agreement in place to fill a specific position.
