Scientist

Polysciences Inc
18 reviews
-
Fishers, IN 46038
Job match details


Your resume might be missing qualifications
missing qualificationManufacturingmissing qualificationNIST standardsmissing qualificationAutomotive diagnosticsmissing qualificationImmunoassays
Make sure your resume is up to date
Changes may take some time to be reflected in the above message.

Bangs Laboratories in Fishers, Indiana is a manufacturer of uniform polymer, silica, and magnetic microsphere products for diagnostic, research, and standardization applications. Our three lines of superparamagnetic microparticles allow us to uniquely address a wide range of applications in the life sciences, including cell separations, immunoassays, and suspension arrays. Our collection of microsphere standards includes Quantum™ kits with QuickCal® for quantitative fluorescence analyses, ViaCheck™ standards for viability analyzers, NIST-traceable size standards for particle sizers, and count standards for particle and cell counters.


We’re looking for a Scientist who will support microsphere-based product manufacturing by performing production processes and operating analytical instruments to test products and processes. We need strong-minded, flexible, detail-oriented team players to support our growing operations and diverse customer base. The ideal candidate will focus on the details, and utilize critical thinking while following established manufacturing and test procedures. In addition, this position may be a part of process optimization, validation, or applications support teams.
Responsibilities include:

Manufacture microsphere products utilizing a portfolio of synthesis techniques, including polymerization, precipitation and chemical conjugation.
Operate independently to produce a wide range of products, within the parameters of our ISO 13485 quality system.
Perform analytical test methods in support of in-process and release testing.
Perform troubleshooting of instrumentation and reagents, as well as production processes.
Perform statistical analysis of product data.
Assist with technical support to customers based on various inquiries.
Support team members by assisting as needed.

At Bangs, we do things differently; we pride ourselves on being a uique, interesting place to work. We’ve got hard working employees who like to have a bit of fun, and we’re a small company, so you won’t find the corporate nonsense and old-fashioned hierarchy here. We understand how important work/life balance is!


We offer benefits that can compete with large companies and are affordable – so you can afford the appointment and the cure! We have four healthcare plans; a comprehensive dental plan that includes orthodontia; a flexible spending account; basic and supplemental life insurance plans; short-term and long-term disability; a 401(k) with a healthy employer match; an Employee Assistance Program; auto and homeowners discounted plans; long-term care insurance at group rates; college savings plan; paid time off; a credit union; discounted tickets to the area’s activities (including Broadway shows) and half off our bath and body products.

Must live within a commutable distance to Fishers, IN. Must have legal authorization to work in the US and will not require sponsorship. No phone calls please. Visit https://www.bangslabs.com/get-know-us/careers to apply.

Bangs Laboratories and Polysciences are Equal Opportunity Employers of Protected Veterans and Individuals with Disabilities. Drug-free workplace. Tobacco-free work site.


Skills and Qualifications:

B.S. in Chemistry or Chemical Engineering
A minimum of two years of non-university work experience, preferably in a scientific manufacturing environment.
Experience with bench top chemistry principles and chemical conjugations.
Demonstrated ability to think critically and cover a broad range of responsibilities
Ability to visualize issues, determine root causes, and develop solutions.
Must be self-motivated and highly responsible, with the ability to execute technical tasks and projects with minimal supervision and work multiple projects simultaneously.
Strong written and verbal communications skills.
