Battery Innovation Center

7970 S. Energy Drive Newberry, IN, USA

Phone (812)863-2424

Job Description: Battery Materials Chemist

Must be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident

The Battery Innovation Center (BIC) is seeking a qualified, innovation-focused, materials chemist to join our team. The ideal candidate must have the desire to work in a fast paced, flexible work environment with the willingness to apply their skills and expertise to all facets of the battery research and development process. The candidate will directly interface will all individuals in the organization as well as externally with our clients.

As part of a small, passionate, and accomplished team of experts, this position involves close collaboration with engineers and scientists across the nation to support the commercialization of novel energy storage systems and solutions. On a daily basis, you will work with advanced/experimental materials (e.g. nano-particles, metal oxides, electrolytes, and polymers), inspect and prepare equipment, identify and address testing constraints, and analyze data. The job entails hands-on work with electrodes starting from their powder components to building and testing cells. After training, in which you will receive broad experience across battery manufacturing processes, you will become a project lead of new research and development efforts. This position will directly impact the future of energy storage and will require your dedicated commitment and detailed attention towards safe and reliable batteries.

Responsibilities:

*

Research, design, and analyze advanced battery products through testing, validation, and reporting
Interact directly with clients to understand their needs and translate these into their products
Apply materials chemistry first principles to provide direction for product development, material evaluations, and battery applications
Analyze data and apply conclusions to iteratively develop experimental design
Work independently and efficiently to meet deliverables within timeline and budgetary constraints
Qualifications:

*

Minimum of MS degree in Materials Chemistry or related STEM discipline
Minimum 3 years of industrial battery experience
Technical expertise in electrochemistry, thermodynamics, and structure-function relationships
Strong technical report writing and presentation skills
Excellent communication, prioritization, attention to detail, and organizational skillsets
Ability to apply research and statistical analysis techniques to make sound, data-driven conclusions
Desired:

*

5+ years of battery research experience in industry
Exceptional knowledge of electrochemical testing methods and lithium ion battery technology
Deep understanding of fundamental material characterization techniques and material synthesis methods
Hands-on expertise with powder processing, rheology, and formulation development
Familiarity with Arbin Instruments, computational chemistry, Excel VBA, SQL, and Python a plus
The BIC offers a phenomenal work environment and culture, with competitive compensation and benefits. This job description is intended to convey information essential to understanding the scope of the job and the general nature and level of work performed by job holders within this job, and is not a complete list of qualifications, skills, efforts, duties, responsibilities, and benefits associated with the position.

BIC is an equal opportunity employer. In addition to EEO being the law, it is a policy that is fully consistent with BIC's principles. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to status as a protected veteran or a qualified individual with a disability, or other protected status such as race, religion, color, national origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, genetic information, pregnancy or age. BIC prohibits any form of workplace harassment.

If you are interested in this position, please apply by sending your resume and cover letter via Indeed.com our our Careers portion of our website.

To learn more about the BIC please go visit our website

Job Type: Full-time

Benefits:

Dental insurance
Disability insurance
Health insurance
Life insurance
Paid time off
Retirement plan
Vision insurance
Schedule:

8 hour shift
Day shift
Monday to Friday
Overtime
Supplemental Pay:

Bonus pay
Signing bonus
This Job Is Ideal for Someone Who Is:

Adaptable/flexible -- enjoys doing work that requires frequent shifts in direction
Detail-oriented -- would rather focus on the details of work than the bigger picture
Autonomous/Independent -- enjoys working with little direction
Company's website:

www.bicindiana.com
Company's Facebook page:

https://www.facebook.com/theBICIndiana
Benefit Conditions:

Only full-time employees eligible
Work Remotely:

No
