Job details
Salary
$48,670 - $77,396 a year
Job Type
Full-time
Part-time
Full Job Description
Duties
Summary
This vacancy is for a Survey Statistician position in the Associate Director for Demographic Programs (ADDP) located at the U.S. Census Bureau Headquarters in Suitland, Maryland and the National Processing Center in Jeffersonville, Indiana.

This Job Opportunity Announcement may be used to fill other Survey Statistician, GS-1530-07/09, FPL 12 positions within the Census Bureau in the same geographical location with the same qualifications and specialized experience.


Responsibilities
Communicate with supervisor and employees throughout the organization.
Apply statistical techniques and methods in performing project related activities.
Gather survey requirements, developing specifications, procedures, survey materials, and training for data collection and post collection editing activities.
Document procedures, problems encountered and lessons learned.
Plan, coordinate, implement, and monitor project/survey activities for large-scale household surveys and/or smaller-scale surveys, including surveys of institutions.
Supervisory status
No

Promotion Potential
12

Job family (Series)
1530 Statistics

Similar jobs
Statisticians
Statisticians, Survey
Survey Statisticians
Requirements

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
U.S. citizen.
Suitable for Federal employment.
Registered for Selective Service if applicable. (www.sss.gov)
You may be required to complete a financial disclosure (OGE-450).
Applicants must meet all qualification requirements by the closing date of this announcement.

Salary range for Jeffersonville, IN (GS-7) $43,251 - $56,222 : (GS-9) $52,905 - $68,777

Salary range for Suitland, MD (GS-7) $48,670 - $63,267 : (GS-9) $59,534 - $77,396

A probationary period may be required.

This position is ELIGIBLE for telework; additional criteria will be required (e.g., supervisory approval).

This is a BARGAINING unit position.

Relocation expenses may be paid.

Due to the COVID-19 pandemic, and individual states being in different phases of reopening, once the selectee becomes an employee, the report date to the official duty station/facility may be delayed until such time that management notifies the employee of their requirement to report. Until it is safe to relocate, the employee may be approved to telework to the maximum extent possible, up to and including full-time.

Qualifications
MINIMUM QUALIFICATION REQUIREMENTS:

Basic Entry Requirements for All Grade Levels:

Education:

A. Degree: that included 15 semester hours in statistics (or in mathematics and statistics, provided at least 6 semester hours were in statistics), and 9 additional semester hours in one or more of the following: physical or biological sciences, medicine, education, or engineering; or in the social sciences including demography, history, economics, social welfare, geography, international relations, social or cultural anthropology, health sociology, political science, public administration, psychology, etc. Credit toward meeting statistical course requirements should be given for courses in which 50 percent of the course content appears to be statistical methods, e.g., courses that included studies in research methods in psychology or economics such as tests and measurements or business cycles, or courses in methods of processing mass statistical data such as tabulating methods or electronic data processing.

NOTE: Additionally, to receive credit for coursework that is not catalogued on the transcript as Statistics or contain 'statistics' in the course title, applicants must attach a copy of an official course description that clarifies the course has statistical content, or written documentation which must be on official school letterhead from a professor or a school official verifying that the content of the course has either met the 50 percent statistics course requirements or was a statistical course. If you do not submit sufficient academic documentation necessary to demonstrate that you meet the eligibility and minimum qualification requirements described in this announcement, your application will be deemed incomplete and you will be ineligible for further consideration for this vacancy.

OR

B. Combination of education and experience - courses as shown in A above, plus appropriate experience or additional education. The experience should have included a full range of professional statistical work such as (a) sampling, (b) collecting, computing, and analyzing statistical data, and (c) applying statistical techniques such as measurement of central tendency, dispersion, skewness, sampling error, simple and multiple correlation, analysis of variance, and tests of significance.

AND

In addition to meeting the Basic Entry Requirements above, applicants must have the specialized experience listed below.

For the GS-07, you must have one year of experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-05 grade level in the Federal service.

Experience for this position includes: Communicating in-person and in writing to diverse audiences, including co-workers, and internal/external customers; reviewing and analyzing data using statistical techniques and statistical software such as SAS and/or Excel; questionnaire design, instrument development and testing for automated and/web data collection instruments with guidance and supervision; writing procedures, documentation, and/or training guides for data collection practices; conducting/participating in a project from start to finish, setting priorities, and maintaining schedules.

OR

Education: one full year of progressively higher-level graduate education.

OR

You have superior academic achievement, which is defined as one (or more) of the following: Membership in a national honor society; graduating in the upper 1/3 of the class; earning an undergraduate grade point average (GPA) of at least 2.95 (on a 4.0 scale) in the final 2 undergraduate years completed; earning a cumulative undergraduate GPA of at least 2.95; earning an undergraduate GPA of at least 3.45 in the major field of study during the final 2 undergraduate years completed; or earning a cumulative undergraduate GPA of 3.45 in the major field of study.

For the GS-09, you must have one year of experience at a level of difficulty and responsibility equivalent to the GS-07 grade level in the Federal service.

Experience for this position includes: Communicating in-person and in writing to diverse audiences, including co-workers, and internal/external customers; reviewing and analyzing data using statistical techniques and statistical software such as SAS and/or Excel; questionnaire design, instrument development and testing for automated and/web data collection instruments with guidance and supervision; writing procedures, documentation, and/or training guides for data collection practices; conducting/participating in a project from start to finish, setting priorities, and maintaining schedules; identifying and solving problems; working in teams and completing projects on time.

OR

Education: two years of progressively higher level graduate education leading to a master's degree or you have a master's degree or equivalent graduate degree.

NOTE: Education and experience may be combined for all grade levels for which both education and experience are acceptable.

Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g., Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community, student, social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.

Education
Additional information
The following links provide information on various hiring authorities that do not fall under competitive examining procedures; however, they may enable you to apply through merit assignment procedures, or be eligible for a non-competitive appointment.

VRA (GS-11 or below)
VEOA (permanent positions)
30% or more disabled
Persons with Disabilities
CTAP
ICTAP
The Department of Commerce provides reasonable accommodations to applicants with disabilities. If you need a reasonable accommodation for any part of the application and hiring process, please notify the Human Resources Office. The decision on granting reasonable accommodation will be on a case-by-case basis. TTY users can contact the Human Resources Office via the Federal Relay Service, 1-800-877-8339.


How You Will Be Evaluated
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.

Your resume, optional cover letter and supporting documentation will be reviewed to determine if you meet the minimum qualifications for the position. If you meet the minimum qualifications stated in the job opportunity announcement, we will compare your resume, optional cover letter and supporting documentation to your responses on the scored occupational questionnaire (True/False, Yes/No, Multiple Choice questions) and place you in one of three pre-defined categories. These categories are "gold," "silver," and "bronze." Your resume and/or optional cover letter must support your responses to the scored occupational questionnaire, or your score may be lowered. Candidates placed in the "gold" category will be identified for referral to the hiring manager and may be invited for an interview.

How you will be evaluated for preference eligibility: Within each category, those entitled to veterans' preference will be listed at the top of the pre-defined category for which they are placed.

GS-09 Preference eligible with a service-connected disability of 10% or more will be listed at the top of the highest quality category (gold).

The scored occupational questionnaire will evaluate you on the following competencies; please do not provide a separate written response:

Skill in written and oral communication to a variety of audiences.
Knowledge of statistical theories, methodology, and techniques to assist in solving problems related to the review, analysis, and research data.
Ability to design questionnaires, develop/test specifications and procedures, survey materials and training for multiple modes of data collection, including paper, automated, and/or web instruments and post collection data processing.
Knowledge of the statistical methods, procedures, and specifications required to assist in planning project/survey activities.
Ability to plan work assignments, summarize problems, and prepare documentation of procedures, problems, and recommendations resulting from various survey/project activities.
For more information on category rating, please go to: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/hiring-information/competitive-hiring/#url=Category-Rating.

We recommend that you preview the online questions for this announcement before you start the application process.

Do NOT include the following types of information in your application:

Social Security Number (SSN)
Date of Birth (DOB)
Photos of yourself (if included on your resume you will not be considered for this position)
Personal information: such as age, gender, religious affiliation, etc.

To preview questions please click here.
Background checks and security clearance
Security clearance
Other

Drug test required
No

Required Documents

Required Documents
A complete application consists of the following:

Resume showing relevant experience; cover letter optional. Your resume must list your educational and work experience including the dates (mm/dd/yy) of each employment along with the number of hours worked per week. Your resume may be used to validate your responses to the scored occupational questionnaire. Your resume should also indicate your citizenship and if you are registered with the Selective Service System if you are a male born after 12/31/59.
Veterans' Preference Documentation: Please indicate on your resume the type of veterans' preference you are claiming and provide the appropriate supporting documentation (DD-214 stating disposition of discharge or character of service, VA letter, SF-15, etc.) to validate your claim. For more information regarding eligibility requirements, please go to: http://www.fedshirevets.gov/job/vetpref/index.aspx.
Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) and Interagency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) documentation, if applicable (see other information).
Education Documentation: If this position requires proof of higher education, or you are substituting education for experience, you must submit an unofficial transcript or a list of courses that includes the following information: name of accredited institution, grades earned, completion dates, and quarter and semester hours earned. This also applies to Census Bureau employees. Education completed in foreign colleges or universities may be used to meet the requirements. Please refer to http://www.opm.gov/qualifications/policy/ApplicationOfStds-04.asp for more information.
You are not required to submit official documents at this time; copies are sufficient.

Special Instructions for Foreign Education: Qualifying education from colleges and universities in foreign countries must be evaluated in terms of equivalency to that acquired in U.S. colleges and universities. Applicants educated in whole or in part in foreign countries must submit sufficient evidence, including transcripts, to an accredited private organization for an equivalency evaluation of course work and degree. A listing of these accredited organizations can be found on the Department of Education's website - http://www.ed.gov/about/offices/list/ous/international/usnei/us/edlite-visitus-forrecog.html. You must provide a copy of the letter containing the results of the equivalency evaluation with a course by course listing along with your application. Failure to provide such documentation when requested will result in lost consideration.

CTAP and ICTAP Eligibles

CTAP and ICTAP candidates will be eligible for selection priority if it is determined that they have exceeded the minimum qualifications for the position by attaining at least a rating of 85 out of 100. Information about CTAP and ICTAP eligibility is on the Office of Personnel Management's Career Transition Resources website at: https://www.opm.gov/policy-data-oversight/workforce-restructuring/employee-guide-to-career-transition/ctap_guideline.pdf.

CTAP applicants MUST submit the following documents:

A copy of your RIF separation notice, notice of proposed removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside of the local commuting area; a Certificate of Expected Separation (CES); or certification that you are in a surplus organization or occupation (this could be a position abolishment letter, a notice of eligibility for discontinued service retirement, or similar notice);
A copy of your SF-50 "Notification of Personnel Action", noting current position, grade/band level, and duty location;
A copy of your latest performance appraisal including your rating; and
Any documentation from your bureau/operating unit that shows your current promotion potential.
ICTAP applicants MUST submit the following documents:

A copy of your RIF separation notice, notice of proposed removal for declining a directed geographic relocation outside of the local commuting area, notice of disability annuity termination, certification from your former agency that it cannot place you after your recovery from a work-related compensable injury; or certification from the National Guard Bureau or Military Department that you are eligible for disability retirement.
A copy of your SF-50 "Notification of Personnel Action", documenting your RIF separation, noting your position, grade/band level, and duty location, and/or Agency certification of inability to place you through RPL, etc.;
A copy of your latest performance appraisal including your rating; and
Any documentation from your agency that shows your current promotion potential.
NOTE: You will not be considered if you fail to provide all required documents.

If you are relying on your education to meet qualification requirements:
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.

Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.

Benefits

Benefits
A career with the U.S. Government provides employees with a comprehensive benefits package. As a federal employee, you and your family will have access to a range of benefits that are designed to make your federal career very rewarding. Learn more about federal benefits.

Census Bureau offers a comprehensive benefits package. Explore the benefits offered to most Federal employees at https://www.usa.gov/benefits-for-federal-employees.

Additional benefits available at Census Headquarters located in Suitland, MD, include: fitness center; child-care facility; credit union; free parking; convenient access to Metrorail and Metrobus transit services in Washington, DC, Maryland and Virginia communities; car pools/van pools; etc.

Eligibility for benefits depends on the type of position you hold and whether your position is full-time, part-time, or intermittent. Contact the hiring agency for more information on the specific benefits offered.


Help
This job is open to
The public
U.S. citizens, nationals or those who owe allegiance to the U.S.

Clarification from the agency
All qualified United States citizens.