Full Job Description
Who We Are

Constellium is a publicly traded global leader in the design and manufacture of high value-added aluminum products and solutions that primarily support the needs of the automotive, aerospace and packaging industries. Constellium has its corporate headquarters in Baltimore, MD with additional corporate offices in Paris, France and Zurich, Switzerland. Comprising 12,000 employees worldwide, Constellium operates across 25 manufacturing sites in North America (Muscle Shoals, AL; Bowling Green, KY; Ravenswood, VW; Van Buren, MI, White, GA and implantations in Canada and Mexico), Europe and China with reported 2019 sales exceeding € 5.9 billion. Constellium is organized around 3 main operating business units whose products and next generation offerings emminate from the group’s world-class R&D centers in the USA, France and the UK, which constitutese Constellium innovation engine.

Packaging and Automotive Rolled Products (P&ARP) : Constellium addresses every facet of this market from finished sheets and coils tailored for packaging applications and automotive manufacturing to the recycling of end-of-life products.
Aerospace & Transportation (A&T) : This business provides technologically advanced aluminum alloys in tailored solutions for the global aerospace, transportation, space and defense sectors.
Automotive Structures and Industry (AS&I) : This unit provides a broad range of advanced product solutions and services for the global automotive industry with the goal of producing lighter, safer, and more fuel efficient gas and electric vehicles.
Role Overview

Contribute to the development of new alloys/ solutions for auto body sheet applications working closely with OEMs, Technical Customer Service engineers (TCS) and plants teams.

To this end, the role holder will be expected to contribute to :

define property goals on the basis of customer requirements,
design and follow experimental plans aimed at meeting these goals,
and interpret the data thus generated.
The recommended solutions will have to be innovative, differentiating and taking advantage of Constellium industrial assets.

The role holder is expected to also support the work of the Technology Teams in the plants situated in Kentucky and Alabama, and therefore needs to have the flexibility to travel to these locations as well as to automotive manufacturing sites across the country to follow trials or do some troubleshooting. International travel, in particular to Constellium’s main research center in France or to European plants also serving the automotive market (Germany, France), is also likely.
Key Accountabilities

Be able to respect the health and safety practices of the site (EHS).
Contribute to the definition of project objectives by concise description of property targets in collaboration with project manager and Technical Customer Service engineers (TCS).
Provide project managers with metallurgical options based on scientific literature, relevant patents and Constellium knowledge review.
Design experiments, based on C-TEC Voreppe and Plymouth prototyping capabilities or industrial processing to test proposed options, to demonstrate innovative options.
Be able to work independently and as part of small focused team to resolve plant and customer problems.
Contribute to the laboratory testing tasks and organization with the other team members when needed..
Gather results and interpret data to make solid recommendations to our plants, OEMs, suppliers…in collaboration with the Technical Customer Service engineers (TCS).
Share the knowledge through clear and high quality reporting.
File patents when possible and relevant.
Increase personal metallurgical skills through international networking.
Role Requirements

Technical competencies

Bachelor’s degree or engineering qualification in a physical science (e.g. Materials, Engineering, Physics, Chemistry) is necessary. A masters-level degree and/or a PhD in Materials Science or Metallurgy or equivalent experience is required.
In addition, candidates should demonstrate competencies in R&D (literature review, experimental methods, characterization, data analysis).
Experience:

The ideal candidate will have 1 – 3+ years of experience in a metallurgical engineering environment, preferably focused on automotive alloys or aluminum.
Candidates should be able to demonstrate their ability to work in a team, in a multicultural and cross-functional environment, for example through a period of training or professional experience acquired outside their native country. In addition, the successful candidate will show an attraction to industrial challenges, will be customer oriented and striving for excellence.
Having a good command of French and/or German would be a plus.
