Convoy logo
Senior Data Scientist, Operations
Seattle, Washington /
Data Science /
Full-time
Who we are: 

Convoy is transforming the $800 billion trucking industry. Our mission is to transport the world with endless capacity and zero waste. The industry is huge and so is the opportunity to change the way freight moves.

The next time you’re out driving and see an 18-wheeler on the road, that truck is empty 35% of the time. When big trucks drive empty, they throw unnecessary CO2 into the atmosphere. In fact, empty trucks generate more than 76 million metric tons of wasted carbon emissions every year. At Convoy, our digital freight network helps reduce those empty miles and cut carbon waste by nearly half.

This is your opportunity to collaborate with an incredible group of people and help transform the freight industry. Join Convoy and help move the world forward!

About You:

We build the models that power freight pricing, shipment offer relevance, auction bidding strategy, and other core services. The breadth of the problems space is huge, spanning machine learning, optimization, metric definition, econometrics, and prediction domains. And we have only begun to dig into the difficult and diverse problems in our two-sided marketplace.
You Will:

        At Convoy you will be expected to work autonomously and own your domain end-to-end.
        You will collaborate with Operations and other business leaders, research scientists, and product managers across the company.
        This role sits at the intersection of data science and operations, on a team that leverages data insights to maximize the impact of our operations teams by defining key metrics, reporting on KPIs, developing optimal staffing models, and improving process through causal inference.
        Working closely with Product and Operations leaders, you’ll significantly influence our roadmap to deliver world class service to our customers as efficiently as possible.

We're looking for someone who has:

        Minimum of 5+ years of industry experience in Consulting, Business Intelligence, Data Scientist, or Analytics roles
        SQL fluency
        ETL pipeline experience
        Experience with scientific/statistical languages such as R or Python
        Ability to break down high-level business problems into concrete analytical solutions
        Strong communication and utmost attention to detail
        BS or MS in economics, statistics, computer science, operations research, engineering, a natural science or equivalent quantitative subject
        Candidates must be eligible to work in the U.S. at our Seattle HQ. Convoy is an equal-opportunity employer and we welcome applicants from all backgrounds. If you’re a passionate team player who wants to have an outsized impact on a diverse and dynamic team, we’d love to hear from you!

Convoy is an equal-opportunity employer and we welcome applicants from all backgrounds. If you’re a passionate team player who wants to have an outsized impact on a diverse and dynamic team, we’d love to hear from you!

Convoy Home Page
Jobs powered by Lever logo