
Echodyne Careers
Data Analyst

Engineering Kirkland, Washington
Apply
Description

HELP US BUILD THE NEXT GENERATION RADAR

 

It’s not often you get the chance to change industries by bringing truly breakthrough technology to market – technology that not only disrupts existing markets but creates vast new ones. It’s hard and challenging work, but it’s also exciting, energizing, satisfying, and rewarding!

 

Drones, autonomous cars and trucks, heavy machines, even flying cars. Echodyne has applied the physics of metamaterials to create a new category of sensor that provides the critical high-resolution, ground-truth data that autonomous machines and vehicles need to operate safely at any time and in any weather.

 

Echodyne’s Metamaterials Electronically Scanning Array (MESA) is changing the way people think about commercial radar. Built on decades of research, Echodyne brings high-performance radar to commercial markets and applications constrained by Cost, Size, Weight or Power.

 

Echodyne is seeking a Data Analyst with expertise in statistical analysis of complex datasets to join itthe team. The ideal candidate is a curious, meticulous, systematic problem solver who thrives in an interactive close-knit team, and has the motivation and experience to complete projects with minimal supervision. Their work will make a direct daily impact on our customers, products, and sales.

 

Responsibilities:

    Collaborate with Field Application Engineering, Product, and Business Development teams to understand what their analysis needs are.
    Design experiments and field test procedures to answer specific sensor performance questions.
    Build scripts for one-off analyses.
    Build pipelines (mainly in Python) for recurring design verification testing.
    Produce written reports summarizing the results of analyses for internal and external consumption.
    Explore available radar data in an open-ended way looking for new insights.

 

Required skills / experience:

    Good written and verbal communication to both understand what is needed from a test or analysis, and to share conclusions.
    Good technical writing and data visualization skills to make conclusions and outcomes readily interpretable and useful to internal and external technical and non-technical audiences.
    Solid statistics background.
    Proficiency in Python/Pandas/Jupyter, SQL, statistics (hypothesis testing, regression, detection/decision/classification metrics such as TPR/FPR/Precision/Recall/Confusion matrix), 3D geometry (vectors, rotations, coordinate transforms, linear algebra)
    Good spatial understanding and ability to work with multidimensional data.

 

Desired skills / experience (complementary to the required core skills):

    Linux proficiency
    Ability to learn new tools and technology
    Familiarity with detection, classification, tracking, and state estimation.
    Matlab knowledge would be a plus.
    Basic understanding of electromagnetics, antennas, wave-propagation, and classical mechanics.
    Basic understanding of digital signal processing.
    Ability or willingness to learn how to retrain our existing machine learning classifiers.

 

Qualifications:

BS or MS degree in statistics, math, data science, engineering, or physics.

U.S. person. This role may require handling export controlled (ITAR, EAR) data.

 

 

Echodyne is an equal opportunity employer and supports workplace diversity.

Apply Apply Later
← Back to Current Openings
Share
LinkedIn
Facebook
Twitter
Email

Powered by Jobvite

You have been redirected to a Echodyne job page
