POSITION SUMMARY:

The Project Manager will report to a Senior Project Manager and/or Program Manager. This position combines understanding of scientific principles and regulatory requirements to gather and analyze information, write and review reports, complete fieldwork, supervise sampling and drilling contractors, and general technical reporting activities. A Project Manager operates with an "all-hands-on-deck" mentality to ensure client satisfaction and a high level of quality in completion of assigned projects.

ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:

Reasonable accommodations may be made to enable individuals with disabilities to perform the essential functions.

Complete management of projects including initial scoping, budget development, work plan development, oversight of field activities, reporting, communication with client and regulators, and understanding of objectives to achieve project closure.
Author proposals and cost estimates.
Oversee the management of site characterization and remediation activities.
Complete and/or oversee sampling and analytical data evaluation for a variety of media. including air, water, groundwater, wastewater, stormwater, hazardous waste, solid waste and soil.
Properly complete paperwork to document field activities
Serve as a leader during field activities with junior scientists/technicians.
Provide oversight and complete documentation of subcontractor activities.
Carefully and accurately manage samples and paperwork and responsibly use scientific instruments.
Apply standard practices and techniques in specific situations, adjust and correlate data, recognize discrepancies in results and follow operations through a series of related detailed steps or processes.
Plan, direct, and oversee investigation/remediation activities including but not limited to: installation of monitoring wells, , soil and groundwater sampling, packaging, and shipping.
Manage investigation derived waste including sampling, classification, and labeling various wastes that may contain petroleum, heavy metals, volatile organic compounds (VOC), semi-volatile organic compounds (SVOC), paint, solvents, etc.
Provide troubleshooting and maintenance of mechanical and electronic systems including pumps, remediation systems, and monitoring equipment.
Research information and compile reports such as status reports, groundwater sampling, site characterization, and potential LNAPL/DNAPL recovery, and risk assessments.
Request information from various governmental and regulatory organizations.
Effectively and professionally interact with co-workers, clients, vendors, and other business contacts.
Travel up to 30% via driving a company vehicle.
COMPETENCIES:Â

Knowledge of risk based corrective action processes.
Knowledge of federal, state, and local environmental regulations.
Superior research and technical writing skills are required with a high level of attention to detail.
Ability to read and interpret a variety of maps and aerial photography.
Capable of managing deadline-driven projects and workload.
Ability to understand and interpret regulatory guidelines.
Analyze numerical and graphic data.
Strong organizational and problem solving skills with the ability to multi-task.
Ability to prepare detailed reports.
Requires effective time management skills, personal conduct, and change management abilities.
Experience with the Missouri Petroleum Storage Tank Insurance Fund (PSTIF).
POSITION TYPE AND EXPECTED HOURS OF WORK:

This is a full-time position that will do work in both an office and field environment. Ability to work flexible hours with some weekend and holiday work required. This position will maintain 34-38 billable hours per week.Â

REQUIRED EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE:

For insurability purposes a valid Driver's License is required.
Five (5) years project management experience required.
Proficiency with Microsoft Office required.
Bachelor's degree in Geology, Environmental Science or related field required.
PREFERRED EDUCATION AND EXPERIENCE:

Ten (10) years project management experience preferred.
40-hour HAZWOPER certified strongly preferred.
Three (3) years supervisory experience preferred.
OTHER DUTIES:

Perform other duties as assigned.
WORK ENVIRONMENT:

Work is performed in both a professional office environment and uncontrolled atmosphere. Exposure to harsh conditions such as: dust, fumes, chemicals, hazardous materials, noise, and varying weather and temperatures for long periods of time is possible. All employees are required to follow safety standards and wear all personal protective equipment in designated areas. Work in diverse environments such as confined spaces, various heights, and storage tanks. Work outdoors in all weather conditions; extreme heat, cold, dry or wet environment. Specific vision abilities required by this job include close vision, distance vision, color vision, peripheral vision, depth perception and ability to adjust focus.

PHYSICAL DEMANDS:

The physical demands described here are representative of those that must be met by an employee to successfully perform the essential functions of this job.

While performing the duties of this position, the employee is regularly required to walk, stand, use hands and fingers, grip, handle or feel; reach with hands and arms; climb or balance; stoop, kneel, crouch or crawl; and talk and hear. Ability to regularly lift and carry 50 pounds. Sitting 50%, standing/walking 50%.

AAP/EEO:

Environmental Works provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment and prohibits discrimination and harassment of any type without regard to race, color, religion, age, sex, national origin, disability status, genetics, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, or any other characteristic protected by federal, state or local laws.