Materials Scientist/Materials Engineer/Metallurgist - (14721)
Description
 
Job Information

    Grade: 200/210
    Org: Materials Science & Engineering
    Work Location: Idaho Falls, ID (Town, Work Schedule - 9X80s)

Idaho National Lab (INL) will change the world’s energy future and secure our infrastructure! Join us - innovate the future!

The Materials Science and Engineering Department at INL is seeking applicants for a Materials Scientist/Materials Engineer/Metallurgist.The chosen candidate will be working in the area of general alloy processing including thermomechanical processing (TMP), e.g., rolling, forging, heat treatment, etc., of nickel and titanium alloys.

INL has traditionally excelled in the research, development and characterization of materials that support multiple types of advanced energy generation, storage, efficiency and security.

Responsibilities Include:

    Extrapolate past work on nickel and titanium alloys to other nickel and titanium alloys as well as to other alloy systems
    Optimize thermomechanical processing of commercial as well as emerging alloys for high strain-rate applications
    Apply TMP knowledge to other alloy systems, especially Fe-based, Ni-based, high entropy alloys, etc., in existing projects focused on other applications in extreme environments such as high temperature, high stress, high radiation environments and aggressive environments (e.g. molten salts, supercritical fluids and other corrosive atmospheres
    Serving as a major or sole contributor to the generation of reports, publications, and proposals and contribution or leadership to the generation of additional proposals and concepts submitted for external funding.
    Conducting and documenting work at an appropriate quality level, including collection and interpretation of laboratory data, planning of research tasks, as well as assessing and applying a wide range of research techniques to those tasks.
    Representing the MS&E Department and INL with sponsors and peers through programmatic and technical presentations.

Minimum Requirements:

    Doctorate in Materials Science and Engineering or related field.
    Ability to obtain and maintain Q-Level Clearance.

Preferred Requirements:

    Experience in traditional TMP methods, in the area of advanced manufacturing, especially utilizing nickel and titanium alloys, is also highly desirable
    Candidates exhibiting the ability to integrate and simulations into development of materials and advanced materials processing approaches will merit special consideration for this position