Full Job Description
Wage is $30 per project. A project is collecting about 30 data points which can be done in 1-2 hours depending on your pace.

This is a contractor position with part time hours.

About Us :

ParkMe licenses parking data for car navigation to companies like Waze, Audi, and BMW. ParkMe was acquired and is now the Santa Monica office and parking data headquarters of INRIX. We believe that technology and data can help drivers get to their destination faster, smarter, and safer, and alleviate traffic congestion in cities across the world.

About You:

ParkMe needs tech-savvy and hard-working individuals to collect field data on parking. This data will be used to test and improve our parking data.

You must have the following:

-A recent and capable smartphone model with a data plan.

-You can easily find your location on the map. You can point out the block and side of street that you are on

-Attention to detail and sharp observation. The ability to execute technical testing and data collection methodologies accurately and precisely.

-Accountability and reliability. You take ownership of your work. You see projects to their completion. We can depend on you to deliver the data on time.

Preferred Qualifications:

-Proficient with Google Docs and Microsoft Office

-Cartophile. Student, enthusiast, and/or practitioner of GIS

-Active lifestyle. You like to go on jogs and/or bicycle rides

-Explorer. You enjoy exploring the neighborhoods of your city.

About the Job:

ParkMe strives to build the most comprehensive and accurate parking dataset of the world, and we need “ground truth” (information gathered on-site) to test and improve it. You will be provided a map of locations to visit and detailed instructions on how to correctly conduct the survey at the locations by taking photos and entering notes using our app.

These parking surveys answer questions like: how many parking spaces are open and available, and how much does it cost to park? We take these surveys in many cities on a regular basis.

Special note during COVID-19: This is a remote data collection position outdoors. Please follow the requirements and recommendations of your local authorities, including the start and end dates of any shelter in place mandates, and exceptions. Additionally, do not do anything that you feel could risk the health and safety of yourself or others.

Next Steps:

Submit a resume and cover letter. Tell us about yourself and why you think you are a great fit for the job. Please also provide:

-Smartphone model

-Primary email

-Phone number

-Which of the following time bucket or shifts you are available to work:

Mon-Thu: 6am-12pm

Mon-Thu: 12pm-6pm

Mon-Thu: 6pm-12am

Fri-Sun: 6am-12pm

Fri-Sun: 12pm-6pm

Fri-Sun: 6pm-12am

Job Type: Contract

Contract Renewal:

Possible
Full Time Opportunity:

No
This Job Is Ideal for Someone Who Is:

Dependable -- more reliable than spontaneous
Adaptable/flexible -- enjoys doing work that requires frequent shifts in direction
Achievement-oriented -- enjoys taking on challenges, even if they might fail
Autonomous/Independent -- enjoys working with little direction
Innovative -- prefers working in unconventional ways or on tasks that require creativity
Company's website:

INRIX.com
Work Remotely:

Yes, always