Job details
Job Type
Temporary
Contract
Full Job Description
Kelly Services is seeking a Regulatory Affairs Specialist for our client, a global Agrichemical company, in Indianapolis, IN. This position is a long term contract opportunity (6+ month) and can be extended indefinitely based on performance and business needs.
Pay will be in the range of $24 - $30/hr depending on qualifications/experience.

DESCRIPTION:

Coordinates global supporting regulatory document preparation and delivery working closely with country regulatory managers
Works closely with country regulatory managers to understand the local requirements of the document requests
Compiles technical data (e.g. 5-batch and toxicological study reports) by collaborating with technical subject matter experts and prepares regulatory supporting submission documentation.
Proactively reaches out to appropriate subject matter experts, global, regional, or country regulatory staff, or operations as needed to gain clarity on specific requirements for certain document requests
Enters document requests into team tracking tool for metrics and status visibility to document requestors

Education requirements:

Have a minimum of an Associate’s Degree in a science or engineering related discipline.
Industry work experience (2+ years) in any of these areas: Regulatory, Project management, document creation, and drafting and/or review


Why Kelly®?
As a worker today, it’s up to you to take charge of your career and look for opportunities to learn, grow, and achieve your potential. Helping you find what’s next is what we’re all about. We know what’s going on in the evolving world of work—just ask the nearly 500,000 people we employ each year. Connecting with us means getting the support, guidance, and opportunities needed to take your career where you may have never imagined.

About Kelly®
At Kelly, we’re always thinking about what’s next and advising job seekers on new ways of working to reach their full potential. In fact, we’re a leading advocate for temporary/nontraditional workstyles, because we believe they allow flexibility and tremendous growth opportunities that enable a better way to work and live. Connecting great people with great companies is what we do best, and our employment opportunities span a wide variety of workstyles, skill levels, and industries around the world.

Kelly is an equal opportunity employer committed to employing a diverse workforce, including, but not limited to, minorities, females, individuals with disabilities, protected veterans, sexual orientation, gender identity. Equal Employment Opportunity is The Law.
#KellyGTS

]]
Kelly Services - 10 days ago - original job