Berkeley Lab’s Computational Research Division has an opening for a Research Associate. This position will work as part of a multi-lab multidisciplinary team of researchers that are tackling the Million Veterans Project (MVP) program. This position will apply data analytics technologies to a large dataset consisting of millions of Electronic Health Records (EHR) and determine the most effective data representation for machine learning and deep learning technologies. Using database and machine learning technologies, this position will extract features from EHRs and develop a baseline model for prediction of high risk of suicide in collaboration with experts in the field.

The successful Research Associate will have experience with databases and machine learning techniques such as CNNs, SVMs, linear regression and random forest, be team-oriented, pay strict attention to detail, and have good communication skills. This position will also provide research support including the review and analysis of research data, as well as prepare and maintain documentation, prepare written and oral reports.

What You Will Do:

    Support the development of data analytics tools for a large dataset of EHRs.

    Work on the development of language models to extract concepts from medical notes and surveys in the context of suicide prediction research.

    Work closely with computational scientists and physicians to provide research support including the review of research data and the analysis of results.

    Take required courses and read necessary materials to access and handle the data.

    Run modeling and simulation software, categorize and analyze the data.

    Store data and codes on a shared server that can be accessed by the research team.   

    Prepare and maintain documentation (code description and tutorials, technical reports, summaries, data analyses).

    Participate in research group meetings.


What is Required:

    Bachelor’s degree and at least 6 months of related experience. 

    Rudimentary knowledge and skills with data analytics technologies such as Python, R, Tableau, SQL.

    Knowledge and skills with data mining, data visualization, statistical modeling, machine learning and deep learning techniques such as CNN, SVM, random forest and linear regression.

    Demonstrated analytical, organizational and multitasking skills with the ability to follow written instructions and protocols.

    Proficiency in creating and maintaining documentation and analyzing research data.


The posting shall remain open until the position is filled.

Notes:

    This is a full-time 1 year, career-track term appointment that may be renewed to a maximum of five years and that may be converted to career based upon satisfactory job performance, continuing availability of funds, and ongoing operational needs.

    This position is represented by a union for collective bargaining purposes.

    Salary will be determined based on range by collective bargaining agreement.

    This position may be subject to a background check. Any convictions will be evaluated to determine if they directly relate to the responsibilities and requirements of the position. Having a conviction history will not automatically disqualify an applicant from being considered for employment.

    Work will be primarily performed at Lawrence Berkeley National Lab, 1 Cyclotron Road, Berkeley, CA.


Learn About Us:

Working at Berkeley Lab has many rewards including a competitive compensation program, excellent health and welfare programs, a retirement program that is second to none, and outstanding development opportunities.  To view information about the many rewards that are offered at Berkeley Lab- Click Here.

Berkeley Lab (LBNL) addresses the world’s most urgent scientific challenges by advancing sustainable energy, protecting human health, creating new materials, and revealing the origin and fate of the universe. Founded in 1931, Berkeley Lab’s scientific expertise has been recognized with 13 Nobel prizes. The University of California manages Berkeley Lab for the U.S. Department of Energy’s Office of Science.

Equal Employment Opportunity: Berkeley Lab is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, or protected veteran status. Berkeley Lab is in compliance with the Pay Transparency Nondiscrimination Provision under 41 CFR 60-1.4.  Click here to view the poster and supplement: "Equal Employment Opportunity is the Law."

Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory encourages applications from women, minorities, veterans, and other underrepresented groups presently considering scientific research careers.