Data Scientist

Eli Lilly
1,726 reviews
-
Indianapolis, IN
Job match details



You have matching qualifications
Experience & Skills
Education & Certificates
matching qualificationResearchmatching qualificationRmatching qualificationNatural language processingmatching qualificationData analysis skillsmatching qualificationC++matching qualificationPython
At Lilly, we unite caring with discovery to make life better for people around the world. We are a global healthcare leader headquartered in Indianapolis, Indiana. Our 39,000 employees around the world work to discover and bring life-changing medicines to those who need them, improve the understanding and management of disease, and give back to our communities through philanthropy and volunteerism. We give our best effort to our work, and we put people first. We’re looking for people who are determined to make life better for people around the world.

Data Scientist - Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning for Advanced Analytical and Data Sciences

How would you like a career where you get to use your best analytical skills to make a substantial difference in the well-being of people across the globe? Bring YOUR skills and talents to Lilly and our Advanced Analytical and Data Sciences organization, where you’ll have the opportunity to make an impact on the lives of patients.

As an innovation driven company, we work to discover and bring life-changing medicines to those who need them, improve the understanding and management of disease, and give back to our communities through philanthropy and volunteerism.

Our Advanced Analytical and Data Sciences organization is growing to support the entire Lilly enterprise, from Discovery to Development to Manufacturing and Commercialization of our medicines. To solve a global business's complex problems and the ever-evolving data and analytics landscape, the organization generally requires advanced degrees in statistics, mathematics, econometrics, operations research and computer science. We are playing a leading role in transforming the way the company discovers and develops new treatments, identifies personalized treatment regimens, drives efficiency in our operations, and optimizes our commercialization of new products. WE are doing this with an emphasis in the areas of machine learning and artificial intelligence, natural language processing, and other approaches to unstructured data, advanced mathematical and predictive modeling, visual analytics and more. Whether you are intrigued by the research and development of new medicines or optimizing our commercialization/business, or driving efficiency into our operations, we have a position for you. You will be encouraged to identify important business problems and to further your own research interests in these areas including presentations and publications at professional meetings. Join us on our amazing journey to make life better!

Key responsibilities include:

Partner with key business partners and work within cross-functional teams to identify, scope, and execute analytic efforts that answer business questions, solve business needs, and add business value

Maintain a broad understanding of questions and be fully engaged with teams, bringing an objective voice to the table, and facilitating decisions grounded in data

Collaborate with other analytics team members to review and provide feedback on the analytics work being done, and be willing to seek feedback from other team members about your own work

Stay current with respect to machine learning/statistical/mathematical/informatics modeling methodology, to maintain proficiency in applying new and varied methods, and to be competent in justifying methods selected

Basic Qualifications:

Ph.D. in Statistics, Computer Science, Biostatistics, Operations Research, or quantitative related field

OR Master in Computer Science/Computer Engineering with at least 4 years related working experience

Additional Information:

2 to 3 years’ experience working with programing languages such as Python and R and/or machine learning packages such as TensorFlow

Have research experience in constraint convex optimization. Knowledgeable in non-convex optimization, mixed integer programming.

Have a good understanding of data analysis methods.

Good communication skills with can-do mindset.

Knowledgeable of optimization algorithms, such as nonlinear optimizations.

Have research experience in reinforcement learning, deep learning, and knowledgeable in general machine learning algorithms.

Have good understanding on objective oriented programming, proficient in C++, and knowledgeable in advanced C++11 features.

Knowledgeable in software design, such as familiar with design patterns.

Make the impossible possible in your quest to make life better.

Bring Analytics to life by giving it zeal and making it applicable to our business.

Bring an insatiable desire to learn, to innovate, and to challenge yourself for the benefit of patients.

We’re doing extraordinary things. Join us and you could be, too! #WeAreLilly

Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly USA, LLC and our wholly owned subsidiaries (collectively “Lilly”) are committed to help individuals with disabilities to participate in the workforce and ensure equal opportunity to compete for jobs. If you require an accommodation to submit a resume for positions at Lilly, please email Lilly Human Resources ( Lilly_Recruiting_Compliance@lists.lilly.com ) for further assistance. Please note This email address is intended for use only to request an accommodation as part of the application process. Any other correspondence will not receive a response.

Lilly is an EEO/Affirmative Action Employer and does not discriminate on the basis of age, race, color, religion, gender, sexual orientation, gender identity, gender expression, national origin, protected veteran status, disability or any other legally protected status.
