What You Will Do

This position will be filled at either Scientist Level 2 or Level 3, depending on the skills of the selected candidate. Additional job responsibilities (outlined below) will be assigned if the candidate is hired at the higher level.

Join the Actinide Chemistry and Repository Science Program (ACRSP) as a staff scientist to conduct basic/applied actinide research to strengthen the source-term safety case of the Waste Isolation Pilot Plant (WIPP) TRU repository. The WIPP project is in the process of expanding its core mission and the ACRSP team provides critically needed research to establish the actinide solubility’s, colloidal interactions, redox behavior that define the potentially mobile concentrations of transuranics emplaced in their permanent geologic isolation in a salt repository. Nuclear repository research is inherently international, and the ACRSP team has multiple collaborative activities with the NEA, the international nuclear waste community, the German repository program, and key United States university programs.

As a member of the ACRSP team, you will work at offsite LANL labs located in Carlsbad NM and set in a university environment. These labs are configured to work with high mg-levels of actinides (Th, U, Np, Pu and Am) and have a strong aqueous chemistry (IC, UV-VIS-NIR, LSC, ICP-MS, micro-calorimetry and particle analyzer) and solids characterization (XRD, SEM) radioactive materials capability. We are also active in the application of synchrotron-based techniques (XANES, EXAFS) to environmental-level actinide samples. Publication of research and participation in national and international conferences will be highly encouraged.

The ACRSP team is part of the Los Alamos National Laboratory-Carlsbad OperationsRepository Science and Operations (RSO) Program. The RSO program provides technical expertise on transuranic (TRU) waste treatment, packaging, characterization, acceptable knowledge, and transportation; inventory and actinide chemistry research to support the DOE Carlsbad Field Office (CBFO) who manage the WIPP project.

Scientist 2 ($91,800 – 151,400)

The scientist is expected to work independently to develop and implement research projects and tasks that meet our DOE customer needs to develop a stronger scientific basis for the WIPP TRU repository in the areas of actinide/brine chemistry, microbial effects and/or actinide redox studies. Peer reviewed publications and internal reports to our DOE customer that describe the results of the research performed will be expected. Working well as part of a multidisciplinary team is essential to overall success. National recognition for the work performed through presentation and dissemination of scientific results through publications is expected. ACRSP is an experimental team and does all its analytical work in-house so it is critical that a good working relationship within the team structure is developed. . All of this research is done under a DOE-CBFO compliant quality program and the New Mexico State University safety program.

Scientist 3 ($101,000 - $168,600)

In addition to the duties outlined above, the Scientist 3 will lead, develop and implement internationally recognized research collaborations. S/he will work with our DOE customer to influence and develop program direction and exhibit greater technical leadership in the repository science and environmental actinide program area.

What You Need

Minimum Job Requirements

Ph.D. in chemistry, biology or nuclear/environmental science or related field.

Demonstrated strong problem solving and critical thinking skills.

Demonstrated experience with technical communication and writing skills in English.

Demonstrated experience conducting independent research evidenced by publications, technical reports and presentations in an academic or national lab setting.

Demonstrated experience with working around/with radioactive samples.

Demonstrated knowledge and experience of multidisciplinary work.

Demonstrated knowledge and experience of appropriate safe practices for technical work.

Demonstrated experience interfacing effectively with all levels of management, employees, customers, and DOE organizations.

Additional Job Requirements for Scientist 3:

At least 5 years of demonstrated experience in leading and developing research programs.

Scientific international experience and recognition Ph.D. required.

Education/Experience at lower level: Typical educational requirement is a bachelor’s, master’s, or doctorate degree in science from an accredited college or university.

Education/Experience at higher level: Typical educational requirement is an advanced degree in science from an accredited college or university.

Desired Qualifications:

Geochemical/thermodynamic aqueous speciation modeling experience.

Specific expertise in the application of ion chromatography (IC), x-ray diffraction (XRD), inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry (ICP-MS), calorimetry or synchrotron-based analytical methods (extended X-ray absorption fine structure (EXAFS) or X-ray absorption spectroscopy near edge structure (XANES).

The ability to obtain a Q clearance, which typically requires U.S. citizenship. Although we may pursue applications from non-US citizens.

Note to All Applicants

The primary work location for this position is Carlsbad, NM. The RSO program is located in Carlsbad, NM.For full consideration, please submit a comprehensive cover letter addressing qualifications and experience related to the stated job requirements for this position.

Essential Job Functions : Ability to discriminate speech, sit, stand, walk, type or keyboard, and go on domestic and foreign travel. For the laboratory aspects: ability to smell; use both hands to grip, press, push and pull; work near electrical equipment and ionizing radiation; work with carcinogens and radioactive materials in ventilated hoods and gloveboxes; and wear required safety equipment (glasses, gloves and shoes).

Work Environment: Domestic/foreign travel

Additional Details

Directive 206.2 - Employment with Triad requires a favorable decision by NNSA indicating employee is suitable under NNSA Supplemental Directive 206.2 . Please note that this requirement applies only to citizens of the United States. Foreign nationals are subject to a similar requirement under DOE Order 142.3A.

Clearance: Q (Position will be cleared to this level). Applicants selected will be subject to a Federal background investigation and must meet eligibility requirements

for access to classified matter.

Eligibility requirements: To obtain a clearance, an individual must be at least 18 years of age; U.S. citizenship is required except in very limited circumstances. See DOE Order 472.2 for additional information.

New-Employment Drug Test: The Laboratory requires successful applicants to complete a new-employment drug test and maintains a substance abuse policy that includes random drug testing.

Regular Position: Term status Laboratory employees applying for regular-status positions are converted to regular status.

Internal Applicants: Regular appointment employees who have served at least one year of continuous service in their current position are eligible to apply for posted jobs throughout the Laboratory. If an employee has not served the one year of continuous service, they may only apply for Laboratory jobs with the documented approval of their Division Leader.Please refer to Laboratory Policy P701 for applicant eligibility requirements.

Equal Opportunity: Los Alamos National Laboratory is an equal opportunity employer and supports a diverse and inclusive workforce. All employment practices are based on qualification and merit, without regard to race, color, national origin, ancestry, religion, age, sex, gender identity, sexual orientation or preference, marital status or spousal affiliation, physical or mental disability, medical conditions, pregnancy, status as a protected veteran, genetic information, or citizenship within the limits imposed by federal laws and regulations. The Laboratory is also committed to making our workplace accessible to individuals with disabilities and will provide reasonable accommodations, upon request, for individuals to participate in the application and hiring process. To request such an accommodation, please send an email to applyhelp@lanl.gov or call 1-505-665-4444 option 1.

Where You Will Work

Located in beautiful northern New Mexico, Los Alamos National Laboratory (LANL) is a multidisciplinary research institution engaged in strategic science on behalf of national security. Our generous benefits package includes:

PPO or High Deductible medical insurance with the same large nationwide network

Dental and vision insurance

Free basic life and disability insurance

Paid maternity and parental leave

Award-winning 401(k) (6% matching plus 3.5% annually)

Learning opportunities and tuition assistance

Flexible schedules and time off (paid sick, vacation, and holidays)

Onsite gyms and wellness programs

Extensive relocation packages (outside a 50 mile radius)