Researcher
Penn State University
1,378 reviews
-
University Park, PA

JOB DESCRIPTION AND POSITION REQUIREMENTS:

The Earth and Mineral Sciences Energy Institute at Penn State invites applications for an immediate position of Researcher to conduct research on projects in collaboration with Dr. Randy Vander Wal.

Broadly, the research involves carbon materials, surface chemistry, microscopic and spectroscopic characterization and applications. Carbon forms range from graphene to carbon blacks, also including graphitizing and non-graphitizing carbons precursors. Characterization techniques include TEM, XRD, NMR, TGA, Raman and XPS for structure and bonding information.

Applications include barrier coatings, carbon-carbon composites and energy storage media ranging from combustion produced soot to graphene, and addressing topics such as oxidative reactivity and functionalization, respectively. These themes connect fields spanning materials, human health, and energy. Extensive analytical characterization using the instruments at the Penn State Materials Characterization Laboratory (MCL) and laboratory-based preparation is common to these material studies.

Current projects include characterization and processing of graphene mixtures in composites, graphite formation and flame synthesis. Related studies include thermal versus microwave pyrolysis processing of hydrocarbons. Work on multiple projects is to be anticipated.

This is a fixed term position, funded for one year from the date of hire, with excellent possibility of refunding.

Applicants must hold an advanced degree, M.S. or an equivalent combination of education and experience in chemistry, materials science, chemical engineering, or related field by the time of hire.

Experience with pulsed lasers, optics, spectroscopy and associated spectral acquisition systems is desirable, though not essential. Candidates should possess excellent written and verbal communication skills, be able to work independently and have requisite computer skills. Adaptability to specialized data analysis software, e.g. origin and analytical instrumental software packages is also desirable.

Interested candidates should submit the following:

    Application letter highlighting qualifications for the position
    Curriculum vitae including educational background, employment history, and a list of peer reviewed publications
    Research statement of your interests in the context of desired qualifications
    Contact information for three references 

Applicants should provide evidence, either woven through their application materials or as a separate diversity statement, of a commitment to fostering diversity, equity, inclusive excellence, and belonging and of engagement which creates an inclusive environment in their department/workplace.

CAMPUS SECURITY CRIME STATISTICS:

Pursuant to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act and the Pennsylvania Act of 1988, Penn State publishes a combined Annual Security and Annual Fire Safety Report (ASR). The ASR includes crime statistics and institutional policies concerning campus security, such as those concerning alcohol and drug use, crime prevention, the reporting of crimes, sexual assault, and other matters. The ASR is available for review here .

EEO is the Law

Penn State is an equal opportunity, affirmative action employer, and is committed to providing employment opportunities to all qualified applications without regards to race, color, religion, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identify, national origin, disability or protected veteran status. If you are unable to use our online application process due to an impairment or disability, please contact 814-865-1473.

University Park, PA
