Junior Engineer-EM
Project Enhancement Corporation (PEC)
-
Germantown, MD
Junior Engineer - EM
Location: Flexible/TBD (work is managed in Germantown, MD)


Position on a dynamic and exciting multidisciplinary team providing technical and management support for the world’s largest environmental cleanup program. Provide technical support in a consulting organization for the development of analyses and reports focused on the deactivation and decommissioning (D&D) of excess facilities within the US Department of Energy (DOE) Nuclear Weapons Production Complex and the Office of Naval Reactors Naval Nuclear Propulsion Laboratory Complex. The level of detail can range from conceptual to detailed.

Responsibilities:
Assess facilities that are radioactively and/or chemically contaminated to determine the challenges associated with D&D.
Identify activities required to prepare a facility for D&D, perform D&D, and stabilize (i.e., keep in a safe configuration) while awaiting D&D.
Develop rough order of magnitude cost estimates for the D&D.
Provide research, develop and manage data/information, carry out analysis, and produce graphical and tabular reports to analyze and present program data.
Review/edit documents, make necessary corrections, provide and/or consolidate comments on documents.
Prepare draft correspondence, reports, and briefings.
Provide administrative and other support to DOE Office of Environmental Management (EM).
Organize, facilitate and attend meetings, conferences and wokshops; prepare and distribute summaries/results of meetings.

Required Qualifications:
4-year technical degree (Bachelor of Science or equivalent) from an accredited university and/or 1-5 years of experience in design, construction and/or technical consulting. Acceptable engineering disciplines include environmental, mechanical, chemical, nuclear, or civil.
Candidate must be self-motivated, with the ability to work independently and as part of a team, have focused attention to detail, be able to perform under pressure with aggressive deadlines, take direction, and be willing to learn on the job.
Possess strong written and oral communication skills with the ability to analyze and convert data and information into logical and understandable reports, graphs, and tables.
Experience with Microsoft Office Suite tools and excellent Microsoft Excel skills.
Strong analytical skills.
Customer service oriented; ability to interact with clients.
Reliable, with a willingness to go the extra mile to get the job done.
Ability to thrive in a rapidly changing environment that requires occasional long hours.
Ability to travel on occasion ranging from a few days to two weeks to site locations within the United States.
DOE site access requires the qualified candidate to be a U.S. citizen with the ability to obtain a DOE security clearance. The candidate’s written consent to conduct a background check for the purposes of obtaining or maintaining a security clearance will be required as a condition of employment.
Pre-employment test for the absence of any illegal substances. Ongoing reviews and tests for the absence of illegal substances will also be conducted as a requirement for ongoing access to DOE sites. The candidates’s written consent to conduct such tests will be required as a condition of employment.
Desired Qualifications:
The following qualifications are not required but would be positive factors in candidate evaluation:

New construction or demolition project planning and implementation.
Military, Department of Defense, or DOE experience with the operation of nuclear systems, radiological health protection, or cleanup of contaminated facilities/sites.
Familiarity with the preparation of estimates using both a parametric approach and the more detailed activity-based approach.
Experience with RCRA and/or CERCLA closure processes.
Experience with contaminated waste disposal.

Please e-mail your résumé to:
careers@projectenhancement.com
