Rutgers University Employment Opportunities | Research As...
 https://jobs.rutgers.edu/postings/113956/print_preview
Research Associate
Position Details
Recruitment/PostingDepartment
Salary
Posting Summary
Title
Posting Number
Posting Open Date
Posting Close Date
Minimum Education and
Experience
Certifications/Licenses
Required Knowledge,
Skills, and Abilities
Equipment Utilized
Physical Demands and
Work Environment
Overview
Statement
Special Instructions to
Applicants
Quick Link to Posting
Campus
Research Associate
SAS - Geological Sciences
Commensurate With Experience
The Department of Earth and Planetary Sciences is seeking a Research Associate to begin
September 2020, who is interested in the aqueous geochemistry, biomolecule interactions
with mineral surfaces, and the co-evolution of the geosphere and biosphere. The best suited
candidate will be expected to have expertise in theoretical and experimental geochemistry
related to the origin and early evolution of life on Earth. The hire will participate in highly
complex, advanced level experiments using various new and advanced techniques.
Additionally, the hire will analyze data, publish journal articles, and attract external funding
with a multidisciplinary research team. This Research Associate position is grant funded, and
renewal is contingent upon satisfactory performance and available funding.
20FA0381
03/18/2020
Candidates must have completed a doctoral (Ph.D) level program in Geological Sciences or
a related field, and have three years of postdoctoral research experience.
Candidates must have demonstrated expertise in at least two of the following areas:
geochemical modeling, experimental geochemistry, mineral chemistry, or physical chemistry
of aqueous solutions. The candidates are expected to be proficient in spoken and written
English.
Laboratory environment. Universal precautions are mandatory.
Computer data input required. Ability to perform bench-laboratory experiments and use
computing resources.
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action
Employer. Qualified applicants will be considered for employment without regard to race,
creed, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression, national origin,
disability status, genetic information, protected veteran status, military status or any other
category protected by law. As an institution, we value diversity of background and opinion,
and prohibit discrimination or harassment on the basis of any legally protected class in the
areas of hiring, recruitment, promotion, transfer, demotion, training, compensation, pay,
fringe benefits, layoff, termination or any other terms and conditions of employment.
Please submit the following:
A curriculum vitae (CV)
A statement of research interests
The names and contact information of 3 references
http://jobs.rutgers.edu/postings/113941
Rutgers University-New Brunswick
1 of 2
 11/11/20, 9:32 AM
Rutgers University Employment Opportunities | Research As...
 https://jobs.rutgers.edu/postings/113956/print_preview
Home Location Campus
Location Details
Rutgers University - New Brunswick
This position will be located at:
Department of Earth & Planetary Sciences
Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
Wright-Rieman Laboratories
610 Taylor Road, Room 142
Piscataway, NJ 08854-8066
Posting Specific Questions
Required fields are indicated with an asterisk (*).
Applicant Documents
Required Documents
Optional Documents
1. Resume/CV
2. List of Professional References (contact Info)
3. Research Statement
2 of 2
 11/11/20, 9:32 AM
