JOB SUMMARY

This position reports to the University Provost and supports all University administration by providing data to assist with strategic decisions for the institution. Additionally, the executive director assesses and reports on overall institutional effectiveness utilizing the strategic plan and annual report card system. Maintains licensure of academic programs at the state level (KyCPE), and assists in preparing documents needed for approval from SACSCOC. In collaboration with the SACSCOC Liaison, leads University accreditation efforts and supports individual professional accreditation. Provides guidance and support regarding General Education assessment.
The executive director supports and guides the department in the preparation of reports, visual data by providing the vision for a responsive and current institutional research and assessment team. Coaches and oversees data collection/projects and distribution of official data from the office of Institutional Effectiveness. Coordinates and collaborates with IT staff to meet demands when needed in order to provide information to different constituencies in an accurate and timely manner. Provides guidance to deans, program directors, departments heads, administrative assistants, and any graduate assistants as needed.
ESSENTIAL FUNCTIONS:

Provides data, research and resources to President, Provost and/or other members to support strategic and operational decision making.
Provide support for all aspects of institutional effectiveness and institutional research, including the University’s current Strategic Plan, SACSCOC compliance/reaffirmation and specialized accreditations.
Maintains program licensure at Ky CPE for academic programs, including writing for supplemental changes to that licensure and submits documentation for the annual licensure and NC-SARA renewal processes.
Researches, evaluates, and recommends changes to systems and processes related to the collection, reporting, and dissemination of information, and works to solve data integrity issues.
Contributes to the further development of the University's institutional research and effectiveness functions working with the various academic and administrative offices to sustain best practices and evaluation of institutional effectiveness.
Performs statistical analyses of enrollment trends and other data-related processes.
Assist the Provost to ensure that all academic programs and administrative units continue to conduct meaningful student outcomes and program assessment that leads to continuous improvement.
Assist with the monitoring and data collection of General Education student learning outcomes, to include an annual report of outcomes, which is presented to faculty once all sample data has been captured, cleaned and analyzed.
Partners with IT regarding the systematic evaluation of the utility, availability, accuracy and timeliness of scheduled reports and the development or modification of campus reporting systems to meet campus needs.
Effectively use all software pertaining to Strategic Planning, Accreditation and institutional data collection under the IE purview, and provide training, as needed, to those who will support same.
Oversee the preparation of IPEDS and CPE reports and data requests, to include keeping abreast of changing regulations and communicating reporting impact it may have on other departments across campus.
Manages professional staff, including staff training, schedules (sick and leave requests), mentoring, and completing performance evaluations.
Forecasts and manages budget for the department, including staffing and professional development dollars.
Co-chair for the Council on Institutional Effectiveness to ensure quality, and improve the data collection, analyses, and reporting of information.
Delegate and/or respond to ad-hoc data requests from administration, staff and faculty as needed.
Promotes positive morale and teamwork within the department and provides exceptional customer service to students, faculty and community
Participate in community outreach projects such as the 55,000 Degrees initiative.
Seek out resources and training options to enhance skill sets of self and staff to support ongoing improvement of the Office of Institutional Effectiveness.
Supports the values and institutional goals as defined in the university’s Strategic Plan.
Participates on other committees, taskforces, or short-term projects to support the institution.
Non-voting member of the Curriculum Committee to provide pertinent information regarding licensure and SACSCOC program approval processes.
Maintains active membership in appropriate Institutional Research/Effectiveness organizations such as KAIR, AIR and SACSCOC to remain current in industry practices, assessment, and compliance in those areas.
QUALIFICATIONS:

Master’s degree;
Demonstrated knowledge of database management with competence in relational databases;
Demonstrated expertise in data management, analysis, and reporting;
Proficiency in data collection, interpretation, statistical analysis, and research design;
Excellent communication, teamwork, and critical thinking skills;
Ability to work effectively with faculty, staff, and administration;
Ability to communicate with and develop reports for a broad range of internal and external constituencies;
Possess a broad knowledge and understanding of the organizational structures, academic and administrative functions of higher education institutions.
Knowledgeable of regulatory, compliance and accreditation practices in higher education.
Uses interpersonal skills and makes sound judgments to decide how duties and responsibilities are completed between coworkers, the supervisory chain, faculty, staff, students, and customers