Grounded in safety, quality, and ethics, our experts lead their fields and guide our work with rigor, a creative spirit, and vision for growth. We draw from more than 20 technical specialties around the globe and are committed to fostering an inclusive community of diverse talents, backgrounds, and expertise. We’re a place to apply your passion and collaborate with top environmental talents on work that’s critical to our clients and the communities they support. Join a team that has the environment down to a science

Your Opportunity

Stantec is seeking a geologist, scientist, or engineer to support our team of environmental professionals. The position will support the completion of environmental remediation projects. Primary responsibilities will be related to management of site investigation and remediation projects. Responsibilities are anticipated to include but are not limited to the following:

Design and completion of environmental assessment.
Analysis and interpretation of environmental data.
Mentoring of junior staff.
Design and implementation of remediation strategies.
Direct communication with clients and regulators.
Development of conceptual site models.
Project Management.
Collaborate with other scientific and engineering professionals within the practice.
Prepare technical reports.
Travel may be required for the purpose of overseeing field crews, participating in off-site meetings, or training.

Your Key Responsibilities

Prepare proposals, cost estimates, and contracts for each project.
Plan, direct, and coordinate all activities of the project to ensure that goals or objectives. of the project are accomplished within established budget and schedule parameters.
Monitor and control the project finances and prepare monthly invoices for each project.
Coordinate each project with the client and government agencies as necessary.
Respond to regulatory agency comments and problems as quickly as possible.
Mentor and provide direct hands-on assistance when teaching new environmental analyses, oral and writing skills to environmental specialists and staff scientists.
Stay current with environmental procedures, statutes, rules, guidance and policies.
Supervise the work of all project personnel.
Review draft and final reports, design drawings and computations prepared by environmental specialists, staff scientists and technicians for completeness and accuracy prior to every submittal.
Maintain utilization.
Other duties as assigned.
Your Capabilities and Credentials

Knowledge of project management as related to environmental investigations and remediation.
Strong technical aptitude and technical writing ability.
Ability to manage people while overseeing project.
Ability to work well and self-motivate in a collaborative team environment.
Ability to mentor and supervise junior staff.
Strong organizational and communications skills (able to communicate solutions in writing, verbally and graphically.
Ability to proof writings of other less junior project managers and make recommendations for improvements.
Ability to prioritize work and make responsible decisions that can be defended.
Must pass drug test, background check, physical and must have a satisfactory driving record in accordance with the Company's driving policy.
Education and Experience

BS Degree in Geology, Environmental Science, or Engineering.
5-10 years of experience, predominantly in environmental remediation.
2 years of project management experience.
This description is not a comprehensive listing of activities, duties or responsibilities that may be required of the employee and other duties, responsibilities and activities may be assigned or may be changed at any time with or without notice.

Stantec is a place where the best and brightest come to build on each other's talents, do exciting work, and make an impact on the world around us. Join us and redefine your personal best.

Job: Civil Engineer

Primary Location: United States-Indiana-Indianapolis

Employee Status: Regular

Job Level: Manager

Travel: Yes, 50 % of the Time

Schedule: Full-time

Req ID: 200001IW

Stantec provides equal employment opportunities to all qualified employees and applicants for future and current employment and prohibit discrimination on the grounds of race, color, religion, sex, national origin, age, marital status, genetic information, disability, protected veteran status, sexual orientation, gender identity or gender expression. We prohibit discrimination in decisions concerning recruitment, hiring, referral, promotion, compensation, fringe benefits, job training, terminations or any other condition of employment. Stantec is in compliance with local, state and federal laws and regulations and ensures equitable opportunities in all aspects of employment. EEO including Disability/Protected Veterans