Job Description
Analytical Scientist
Triclinic Labs
Location: Lafayette, IN
Position: Full Time
About Triclinic Labs:
Our goal is to provide the most advanced laboratory and consulting services for solid-state chemical
development and materials analysis. We provide contract development and analysis services for the
pharmaceutical and specialty chemicals industries but have also analyzed and studied counterfeit items,
minerals, semiconductors, and other unique substances. Over the last 15 years we've helped the world's
chemical development groups understand, discover, improve, and protect solid-state materials.
www.tricliniclabs.com
Job Description:
Triclinic Labs is seeking a scientist to:
• Carry out instrumental analyses.
• Aid in maintenance and repair of analytical instruments.
• Process analytical data for inclusion in reports.
• Participate in instrument software validation as necessary.
• Be involved in multiple projects concurrently and exhibit flexibility to meet changing priorities.
• Provide high-quality work output and accurate record keeping
• Comply with all regulatory and laboratory requirements and policies.
Laboratory instruments utilized at Triclinic:
X-ray powder diffraction (XRPD), differential scanning calorimetry (DSC), thermogravimetry (TG),
dynamic vapor sorption (DVS), infrared (IR) spectroscopy, Raman spectroscopy, optical microscopy,
particle sizing.
Job Qualifications:
•
 BS in chemistry or related field.
•
 The ability to self-motivate to a high level of productivity.
•
 Excellent verbal and written communication skills.
•
 The ability to organize and carry out a variety of tasks concurrently.
•
 The ability to deliver high quality laboratory work.
•
 Excellent interpersonal relationship skills.
•
 Commercial laboratory work experience is a plus.
Compensation and Application
We offer a variety of competitive compensation and benefit programs. In addition to an above market
base salary, you will be eligible for our rewards and recognition programs, variable pay and incentive
opportunities, as well as benefits coverage beginning on your first day of employment. You will be
eligible for paid company holidays, flexible work options, and paid vacation. We are also committed to
supporting your professional development through career ladders, training programs, tuition assistance,
and professional association events.
If you meet the requirements of this opportunity, we encourage you to explore how you can make a
difference at Triclinic Labs by applying now at:
http://tricliniclabs.com/directory/solid-state-development-services/physical-and-analytical-
chemistry/employment-opportunities-in-solid-state-physical-and-analytical-chemistry-at-triclinic-
labs.html
