Job details
Salary
$84,118 - $130,390 a year
Job Type
Full-time
Part-time
Full Job Description
Duties
Summary
What General Information Do I Need To Know About This Position?

Salary: GS-12 - $84,118 (Step 01) to $109,358 (Step 10);

Salary: GS-13 - $100,027 (Step 01) to $130,039 (Step 10);

NOTE: First time hires to the Federal Government are typically hired at the Step 01.
Responsibilities
As a Research Geologist (Exploration Geochemist) within the Geology, Geophysics and Geochemistry Science Center, some of your specific duties will include:

Performs research in geochemistry related to low-temperature processes involved in generation of ore deposits
Visualizes geologic and geochemical data in support of research interpretations.
Uses a broad knowledge of Earth Science in performing research.
Travel Required
25% or less - You may be expected to travel up to 2 nights for this position.

Supervisory status
No

Promotion Potential
15

Job family (Series)
1350 Geology

Similar jobs
Geochemists
Requirements

Requirements
Conditions of Employment
Key Requirements:

Applicants must be U.S. Citizens.
Suitable for Federal employment, as determined by background investigation.
Selectee may be subject to serving a one-year probationary period.
More requirements are listed under Qualifications and Other Information.
Selectee must provide a valid state driver's license & safe driving record.
Are There Any Special Requirements For This Position?
Because this position requires travel for official business, the selectee will be required to apply for a charge card within 30 calendar days of appointment. Individuals who have delinquent account balances from a previous Government charge card will be required to satisfy their existing obligation before a new card can be issued.
You will be required to operate a government-owned or -leased vehicle in the performance of your official duties.? Applicants for this position must meet the following requirements:?(1) possess a valid State license, and (2) possess a safe driving record.? If selected, you will be required to provide proof of a valid State license & a copy of your driving record.
A background investigation will be required for this position. Continued employment will be subject to the applicant's successful completion of a background security investigation and favorable adjudication. Failure to successfully meet these requirements will be grounds for termination.
Throughout the recruitment and hiring process we will be communicating with you via email; therefore, it is imperative that the email address you provide when applying for this vacancy remains active. Should your email address change, please notify the point of contact identified in the vacancy announcement as soon as possible so that we can update our system.
Qualifications
BASIC EDUCATION REQUIREMENT: Applicants must meet A or B below to satisfy the basic education requirement for Geologist, all grade levels.

A. Successful completion of a full 4-year course of study in an accredited college or university leading to a bachelor's or higher degree in geology. In addition to the geology course work included in the degree, it must also have included or been supplemented by 20 additional semester hours in any combination of mathematics, physics, chemistry, biological science, structural, chemical, civil, mining or petroleum engineering, computer science, planetary geology, comparative planetology, geophysics, meteorology, hydrology, oceanography, physical geography, marine geology, and cartography.

B. A combination of education and experience-course work as shown in "A" above (24 semester hours or the equivalent in geology plus 20 additional semester hours or the equivalent in any combination of courses as specified in "A" above), plus appropriate experience and/or additional education for a total of 4 years. The education or combined education and experience must be comparable in type, scope and thoroughness to that acquired through successful completion of a 4-year course of study as described in "A" above.

For GS-12:
In addition to the basic education requirement as stated above, applicants must meet one of the following to qualify for the GS-12 level:

**Three years of progressively higher level graduate education (54 semester hours, 81 quarter hours or the equivalent) leading to a Ph.D. degree in geology or other directly related field of study or Ph.D. or equivalent doctoral degree in geology or other directly related field of study if it provided the knowledge, skills and abilities necessary to do the work of the position to be filled.

**OR one year of appropriate professional experience in geology that is equivalent to at least the GS-09 level in the Federal service. Examples of such experience could include research in geology, economic geology, geochemistry, geophysics, remote sensing, and analytical chemistry to characterize, assess and understanding the life cycle of non-fuel mineral resources. This work typically involved leading fundamental research in low temperature geochemistry and applied economic geology with particular emphasis on the surface manifestations of covered deposits; design and lead water/rock reaction studies focused on processes that control element mobility in mineralized and un-mineralized areas; be a member of a team involved in mineral assessments and/or environmental mineral assessments.

**OR a combination of successfully completed graduate level education as described above that is beyond the second year of progressive graduate study and professional experience, as described above. (CLICK HERE FOR DETAILS ON HOW TO COMBINE GRADUATE EDUCATION & EXPERIENCE)

For GS-13:

In addition to the basic education requirement as stated above, applicants must have one year of appropriate professional experience in geology that is equivalent to at least the GS-12 level in the Federal service.

Examples of such experience could include conducting research in general geology, economic geology, geochemistry, geophysics, remote sensing, and analytical chemistry to characterize, assess and understanding the life cycle of non-fuel mineral resources. This work typically involved leading fundamental research in low temperature geochemistry and applied economic geology with particular emphasis on the surface manifestations of covered deposits; design and lead water/rock reaction studies focused on processes that control element mobility in mineralized and un-mineralized areas; develop innovative applications of trace element and isotope geochemistry to understanding low-temperature processes related to economic geology; be a member of a team involved in mineral assessments and/or environmental mineral assessments.

You must meet all qualification and eligibility requirements for the position by the closing date of the announcement.
Education
Experience refers to paid and unpaid experience, including volunteer work done through National Service programs (e.g. Peace Corps, AmeriCorps) and other organizations (e.g., professional; philanthropic; religious; spiritual; community; student; social). Volunteer work helps build critical competencies, knowledge, and skills and can provide valuable training and experience that translates directly to paid employment. You will receive credit for all qualifying experience, including volunteer experience.
Education completed in colleges or universities outside the United States may be used to meet the above requirements. You must provide acceptable documentation that the foreign education is comparable to that received in an accredited educational institution in the United States. For more information on how foreign education is evaluated, visit: https://www.usgs.gov/about/organization/science-support/human-capital/how-foreign-education-evaluated-federal-jobs .
Additional information
Other Information:

Applicants who include vulgar, offensive, or inappropriate language or information in their application package will be ineligible for further consideration for this position.
The full performance level for a Research position is GS-15; however, promotion eligibility is dependent upon the scientific contributions of the incumbent as evaluated by a peer panel.
Identification of promotion potential in this announcement does not constitute a commitment or an obligation on the part of management to promote the employee selected at some future date. Promotion will depend upon administrative approval and the continuing need for and performance of higher-level duties.
Under Executive Order 11935, only United States citizens and nationals (residents of American Samoa and Swains Island) may compete for civil service jobs. Agencies are permitted to hire non-citizens only in very limited circumstances where there are no qualified citizens available for the position.
USGS employees are subject to Title 43, USC Section 31(a) and may not: (a) have any personal, private, direct or indirect interest in lands or mineral wealth of lands under survey; (b) have any substantial personal, private, direct or indirect interests in any private mining or mineral enterprise doing business with the United States; or (c) execute surveys or examinations for private parties or corporations.
The application contains information subject to the Privacy Act (P.L. 93-579, 5 USC 552a). The information is used to determine qualifications for employment, and is authorized under Title 5, USC, Section 3302 and 3361.
DOI uses E-Verify to confirm the employment eligibility of all newly hired employees. To learn more about E-Verify, including your rights and responsibilities, please visit www.dhs.gov/E-Verify.
THE FEDERAL GOVERNMENT IS AN EQUAL OPPORTUNITY EMPLOYER.
Agency Benefits:
USGS has determined that the duties of this position are suitable for telework and the selectee may be allowed to telework in accordance with the DOI Telework policy and with supervisor approval. The official worksite for the selectee is the duty station identified in this vacancy announcement. The selectee will typically report to this duty location on a regular and recurring weekly basis.
For additional information on our internal telework policy, please reference the Department of the Interior Telework Handbook at: https://www.doi.gov/telework/policies.
Working for the U.S. Geological Survey offers a comprehensive benefits package that includes paid vacation, sick leave, and holidays; health, life, dental, vision, and long term care insurance, flexible spending accounts, and participation in the Federal Employees Retirement System.

How You Will Be Evaluated
You will be evaluated for this job based on how well you meet the qualifications above.

-Basis of Rating: Category rating will be used in the ranking and selection process for this position. The quality categories are Best-Qualified, Well-Qualified and Qualified. If you meet the basic qualification and eligibility requirements of this position, you will be contacted via email after the vacancy announcement closes and given 5calendar days to submit narrative responses that address the knowledge, skills, and abilities (KSAs) required to perform the duties of this position. You will be rated and ranked based on the information you provide in your resume as well as the responses you submit to the required KSAs. Veterans' preference rules for category rating will be applied.

The knowledge, skills, and abilities required for this position are as follows:

1. Knowledge of analytical chemistry as it applies to low-temperature geochemistry research, including educational, supervisory, and training experience. Potential analytical methods may include, but are not limited to, inductively coupled plasma mass spectrometry for trace element analysis, scanning electron microscopy, electron microprobe analysis, organic and stable isotope mass spectrometry, radiogenic isotope mass spectrometry, X-ray fluorescence analysis.
2. Knowledge and experience in the implementation of exploration geochemical programs and use of geochemical data acquired from various natural media in mineral exploration. Such media may include rocks, soils, sediments, indicator minerals, organic materials, gases, and water.
3. Knowledge and experience in the application of trace element and isotope geochemistry to economic geology (non-fuel minerals). This may include stable isotope geochemistry of light and/or transitional metal stable isotopes, and/or radiogenic isotopes, and/or trace elements to understand the sources, transport and fate of metals and related ligands.
4. Knowledge and experience in geostatistical and/or GIS techniques for data analysis and interpretation, for data management, and for visualizing geologic and geochemical data in support of mineral resource evaluations. This may include, but is not limited to, use of ESRI-ArcGIS, other GIS software, 3D modeling programs, statistical analysis software, and graphics software.
5. Knowledge and experience in the application of major and trace element geochemistry to quantify hydrothermal alteration and mass transfer.
-NOTE: If it is determined that you have rated yourself higher than is supported in your description of experience and/or education as described in your resume/application, or that your resume or application is incomplete, you may be rated ineligible, not qualified, or your score may be lowered.

To preview the announcement questionnaire, click here: https://apply.usastaffing.gov/ViewQuestionnaire/10942506
Background checks and security clearance
Security clearance
Not Required

Drug test required
No

Position sensitivity and risk
Non-sensitive (NS)/Low Risk

Trust determination process
Credentialing

Required Documents

Required Documents
Required documents may be: (1) faxed to the Agency Contact listed in the vacancy announcement; or (2) uploaded directly from your desktop; or (3) uploaded directly from your USAJOBS stored attachments; or (4) hand delivered to the servicing Human Resources Office listed in the vacancy announcement.

Transcripts
-If this position requires specific educational course work to qualify, or you are qualifying based in whole or part on education, you are required to provide all unofficial transcripts (undergraduate, graduate, etc.) or list of course work, which includes semester hours earned and grade received, by the closing date of this announcement or you will be disqualified from further consideration. Please ensure that all documentation is legible.

Veterans' Preference Eligibles
-If you are claiming veterans' preference you must provide a legible copy of your DD-214, Certificate of Release or Discharge from Active Duty, member 4 copy or any official documentation or statement from the Armed Forces that confirms your dates of service and that your separation, discharge, or release from active duty was under honorable conditions (i.e., Honorable or General Discharge). Note: If you have more than one DD-214 for multiple periods of active duty, submit a copy for each period of service.

-If you are currently on active military duty, you must provide documentation (e.g., campaign document, award citation, etc.), that verifies entitlement to veterans' preference and that your character of military service is honorable.

-If you are claiming 10-point veterans' preference, in addition to the documents specified above, you must also submit documentation that supports your claim, e.g., an official statement from the Department of Veterans Affairs (dated 1991 or later) or from a branch of the Armed Forces certifying the existence of a service-connected disability, or the award of the Purple Heart, etc. The overall rating must be identified on your certification letter or separation orders. Documentation must be received by the closing date shown in this vacancy announcement. If you fail to submit any of the required documentation, you will not be granted veterans' preference.

Additional information on veterans' preference can be found in the VetGuide.

Career Transition Assistance Plan (CTAP) & Inter-agency Career Transition Assistance Plan (ICTAP) Eligibles
-If you are claiming CTAP/ICTAP eligibility, the Servicing Human Resources Office must receive proof by the closing date of this announcement that you meet the requirements of 5 CFR 330 Subpart F for CTAP and 5 CFR 330 Subpart G for ICTAP or you will not receive priority consideration. This includes:
copy of the agency notice;
your most recent Performance Rating; and
your most recent SF-50 noting current position, grade level, and duty location.
If you are a CTAP or ICTAP eligible, you will be considered well qualified if you earn a minimum score of 85 (prior to the assignment of veteran's preference points). For more information on CTAP/ICTAP please click here.
If you are relying on your education to meet qualification requirements:
Education must be accredited by an accrediting institution recognized by the U.S. Department of Education in order for it to be credited towards qualifications. Therefore, provide only the attendance and/or degrees from schools accredited by accrediting institutions recognized by the U.S. Department of Education.

Failure to provide all of the required information as stated in this vacancy announcement may result in an ineligible rating or may affect the overall rating.

Benefits

Benefits
A career with the U.S. Government provides employees with a comprehensive benefits package. As a federal employee, you and your family will have access to a range of benefits that are designed to make your federal career very rewarding. Learn more about federal benefits.

Review our benefits

Eligibility for benefits depends on the type of position you hold and whether your position is full-time, part-time, or intermittent. Contact the hiring agency for more information on the specific benefits offered.


Help
This job is open to
Career transition (CTAP, ICTAP, RPL)
Federal employees who meet the definition of a "surplus" or "displaced" employee.

The public
U.S. citizens, nationals or those who owe allegiance to the U.S.
