Applications Engineer Hide Full Description Applications Engineer CA/Remote
“The battery is the technology of our time.” -The Economist
Voltaiq is a Battery Intelligence software company. Our data platform brings unprecedented analytics, visualization, and predictive capabilities to any company with a battery-powered business model. World-leading brands — including global automakers in Detroit and Germany, household-name tech giants, and decacorn startups — depend on Voltaiq software to accelerate product development, optimize performance, ensure safety and reliability, and unlock financial value in their products. Our high-powered team is composed of battery industry veterans, PhD scientists, a highly skilled product and engineering team, and an advisory board of C-level industry execs, all of whom are passionate about enabling the global energy transition. Voltaiq is headquartered in Berkeley, CA, serving customers around the world.
The role:
The Applications Engineering function at Voltaiq is technical, customer-facing, and deeply involved in the customer relationship from pre-sales, through onboarding, integration, customization, and ongoing support. Our ideal candidate has work experience with battery manufacturing, validation, pack/module design, or other downstream processes.
Our ideal candidate is also comfortable communicating and collaborating closely with customers. While this role is remote, it will require working US East Coast working hours. If you’re interested in working with the world’s leading tech companies and want to have a positive impact on how the world uses energy, this job is for you!
5 of 8 8/11/2020, 4:01 PMHot jobs at Voltaiq Battery Intelligence https://www.voltaiq.com/company/careers/all-open-positions/ Responsibilities:
Develop deep product expertise with Voltaiq software, and apply it to help solve our customers’ most challenging battery engineering problems. Work with customers to maximize their engagement with and utilization of Voltaiq software, with the goal of long term adoption and subscription renewal. Understand customer needs; identify and promote Voltaiq-driven solutions. Work with the Customer Success team to monitor customer health, identify and work proactively to address customer issues. Provide technical expertise across the customer lifecycle, from initial onboarding through ongoing engagement and support. Use identified customer needs to contribute to product development including product roadmap, feature planning, documentation and internal knowledge base, and software testing and validation. Contribute to internal R&D projects and blog posts to establish Voltaiq’s thought leadership at the intersection of battery engineering and data analytics. Up to 30% travel to customer sites and tradeshows (Travel on-hold during pandemic).
Qualifications:
Advanced degree in Materials Science, Mechanical Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, or undergrad degree with 5+ years related work experience. Battery testing and/or battery-powered device engineering experience required. Module/Pack development and/or BMS design experience preferred. Superior creative problem solving and general troubleshooting capability. Strong written and oral communication skills. Proven ability to collaborate and communicate with both technical and non-technical teams. Strong organizational skills, with an ability to manage multiple incoming requests and drive initiatives to their successful completion. Desire and ability to thrive in a loosely structured, high-demand startup environment.
Competitive salary plus equity and full benefits.
Voltaiq is an equal opportunity employer and is committed to achieving a diverse workforce through application of its equal opportunity and nondiscrimination policy, in all aspects of employment.